# The Secular Spirit
## What this is, who we are, and how to live
This text is primarily written by Travis Kohlbeck, with hope that others contribute corrections, notes, feedback, and citations, among other things.

The separation of entities is an illusion. There is only one thing, that thing is a wave, and that wave is called God. Because there is really only one thing, we should live our lives as though it were literally true (because, if you have faith, it is). This means that I am God. You are God. that speck of dirt over there? God. You cannot separate an object from the rest of reality, the entirety of reality literally defines it. So we should live as though you and I are the same, as though you and an animal are the same, as though you and the planet are the same, as though you are God, and should be treated the way God should be treated.

This text will have citations two levels deep. The first main text will be as close to simple english as possible, avoiding established names for the physical concepts involved (e.g. not a "particle" having "energy", but a "particular point-like object" having "an amount of essence borrowed from everything else"), the second will provide context and elaboration using full english, and the third will contain personal information and opinions (such as how one should live their life if all this were true)

depending on how far into the subject, you may or may not have heard about the concept of "wave-particle duality", which basically says that quantum mechanical waves have "particle-like" properties, and particles have "wave-like" properties. unless you study physics, this is where the story stops. but at a certain point, physicists tried getting rid of the particles all-together and the science became more accurate. reality is screaming in our face: "I am a wave". if you accept that quantum mechanics is correct, then you cannot help but apply it to the macroscopic world. but when you do this, you get strange statements about reality, namely, and most importantly to me, everything is the same. there is only one thing. you cannot separate a rock from the rest of the universe, the rest of the universe defines the rock. it's all one big wave, with the information defining the rock spread throughout the entire wave. this is God. you are God. I am God. that rock is God. because God is Everything and you cannot separate yourself or myself or that rock out of it. so how should we live our lives, if this is the truth? I think the most logical conclusion from the statement "I am everything" is "treat everything as myself". I think that is something that is plainly evident, if we truly accept God into our lives. how do I treat a rock as myself? well, I don't like to be kicked. or moved from where I'm currently located. how do I treat an animal as myself? I don't eat them, or confine them. how do I treat the planet? or my coworkers? it all follows smoothly if you accept that God is Everything
